# Leadership Qualities

I am not a driver. I am not a dictator. Where I excel is in motivating others,
and in helping people remove their blockers. In this section I hope to
elaborate on the ways in which I am best able to lead and those areas
where I can most stand to get better.

## Lead from the Rear

I feel most comfortable doing what I call, leading from the rear. It means
listening to your squad, understanding where they want to go, and helping them
realize the path to their success. It's flipping the script on traditional
leadership. Instead of the team depending on you, you depend on your team.
Instead of leading your team, you follow them, and enable them to achieve the
success they determine. This is not control, this is trust. 

## Lead by Example

I feel at home in the trenches. I'm detail oriented in the extreme. In that
same way that I love the craft, I love being on the front line with someone on
my right and left working on the problem. I'm a poor delegator, but a good
doer. 

The way I lead is by setting the high water line of what work should be. If you
want your community to act the way you want them to, you must first act the way
you want them to. If you set the standard, others will follow.  

## Implementation: P-WILD and Non-Directive Leadership

Twice a year, for every year of my Undergrad, I helped with a program called
Project WILD (Wilderness Initiative for Learning at Duke). On August we take
groups of 7-8 incoming freshman and 2-3 staffers. On March we take 3-4 crew
members and 2-3 staffers. Over two trips as a participant, and 6 trips as a
Staffer. The primary leadership style, the high water mark, was non-directive
leadership.

Let's unpack that term. To be non-directive is a combination of these leading
from the rear and leading by example. As a staffer, you have a fundamental
expertise of the problem domain. You've been on these trips, you know how to
rig a tarp and cook a meal in the woods. You are a resource for these crew
members, but they can easily come to rely on you. The goal of a non-directive
leader is to build your crew's competencies to the point they no longer need
you. This a difficult path to thread, as you need to balance support with
challenge. The crew needs to learn, and in order to learn they need to suffer.
If you always act as a safety net for your crew they will not learn the skills
they need to become good staffers in turn. Programmatically this means they
make the same mistakes we did as crew members, but we learn best from our own
mistakes.

## Sheep vs. Goats

My approach to leadership can be illuminated by a metaphor:

> “The merest accident of microgeography had meant that the first man to hear the
> voice of Om, and who gave Om his view of humans, was a shepherd and not a
> goatherd. They have quite different ways of looking at the world, and the whole
> of history might have been different. For sheep are stupid, and have to be
> driven. But goats are intelligent, and need to be led.”
> - Terry Pratchett

Let me elaborate and interpret this statement. Mild disclaimer, I know nothing
about the actual animal husbandry, so please take this metaphor with a block of
salt.

### The Shepard and The Drove

It is somewhat problematic to refer to people as sheep, but what I want to
focus on is the approach of the shepherd. The shepard drives the flock. Another
name for a sheep collective is literally a **Drove**. What does this mean for
the community. It means the sheep are driven by the stick. The sheep are in a
state of stress, forced to move to the places the shepherd wants them to. 

This is inherently against my strengths. I don't have a vision of where we
should go. I don't have the will to force my team in the direction I choose. I
am more of a goatherd.

### The Goatherd and the Tribe

Goats are stubborn. They are smart. They know what they want and can fight to
get it. The collective noun for goats is **Tribe**. These are my kind of
people. Goats cannot be driven, they need to be influenced. There is a trust in
the tribe, and not every team will have this. The goatherd is a member of the
team, in service to the team.  

## Growth Opportunities - Trade Offs of Gentle Leadership

There are deep trade-offs in this approach though. As a technical leader in the
trenches, I can lose the forest for the trees. It prioritizes tactics over
strategy. And it depends fundamentally on the mutual trust of you and your
team.

I feel that I am passing the buck on taking a stand. This style of leadership
is go with the flow; the tree that bends survives the hurricane. What should I
do when the time is not to bend but to hold fast, to double down on what
matters? 

## Growth Opportunities - Personal Competency Worksheet 

After filling out my core competencies worksheet, I found the following areas
needed the most development.

- Taking action, making decisions, and following through
- Managing conflict and negotiating
- Time management

Notice a theme? I find that I too often bend when I should hold steady. I need
to learn to hold myself and others around me more accountable. Planning my time
so that I am more equipped to follow through on my commitments is fundamental.
I need to be true to myself and true to my word. I've mentioned this before,
but I am a deep people pleaser, sometimes at the cost of my own integrity. This
needs to change. 

